Formal description: RomeRL


The game will be a 3d ascii roguelike in the style of old dwarf fortress. The game will need 3d for accurate modeling of aqueaducts and other aspects of roman engineering. The game will have an accurate metal smithing system based on real life ore compositions. It will act as an interactive encyclopedia of knowledge in various fields. It can include the name of all botanical plants.





health: sanitas, salus, valetudo, vita

money: denarius: 
metals: gold silver bronze copper mercury lead tin iron electrum  pewter steel, zinc arsenic antimony 
aesthetics hardness color taste timbre corrosion weight
hammering melting smelting roasting cupellation moulding smithing
ore furnace
necessary components for Roman metallurgy: metallic ore, furnace of unspecified type with a form of oxygen source (assumed by Tylecote to be bellows) and a method of restricting said oxygen (a lid or cover), a source of fuel (charcoal from wood or occasionally peat), moulds and/or hammers and anvils for shaping, the use of crucibles for isolating metals (Zwicker 1985), and likewise cupellation hearths (Tylecote 1962). 

thermal extraction

Romans used many methods to create metal objects. Like Samian ware, moulds were created by making a model of the desired shape (whether through wood, wax, or metal), which would then be pressed into a clay mould. In the case of a metal or wax model, once dry, the ceramic could be heated and the wax or metal melted until it could be poured from the mould (this process utilising wax is called the “lost wax“ technique).


minerals and gemstones: diamonds are known, 

1 gold aureus = 2 gold quinarii = 25 silver denarii = 50 silver quinarii = 100 bronze sestertii = 200 bronze dupondii = 400 copper asses = 800 copper semisses = 1,600 copper quadrantes[when?]

The designs on the coinage of the Republican period displayed a "solid conservatism", usually illustrating mythical scenes or personifications of various gods and goddesses.[8]

A significant advancement in coin imagery occurred when Julius Caesar issued coins bearing his own portrait. While previous moneyers had issued coins featuring portraits of their ancestors, Caesar's coinage marked the third instance in Roman history where a living individual was depicted.

aqueducts, roads

Most Roman cities were shaped like a square. There were 4 main roads leading to the center of the city, or forum. They formed a cross shape, and each point on the edge of the cross was a gateway into the city. Connecting to these main roads were smaller roads, the streets where people lived. 

Way stations providing refreshments were maintained by the government at regular intervals along the roads.

In the New Testament, the gospels refer to the denarius as a day's wage for a common laborer (Matthew 20:2,[24] John 12:5).[25] In the Book of Revelation, during the Third Seal: Black Horse, a choinix ("quart") of wheat and three quarts of barley were each valued at one denarius.[26] Bible scholar Robert H. Mounce says the price of the wheat and barley as described in the vision appears to be ten to twelve times their normal cost in ancient times.[27] Revelation thus describes a condition where basic goods are sold at greatly inflated prices. Thus, the black horse rider depicts times of deep scarcity or famine, but not of starvation. Apparently, a choinix of wheat was the daily ration of one adult. Thus, in the conditions pictured by Revelation 6, the normal income for a working-class family would buy enough food for only one person. The less costly barley would feed three people for one day's wages. 



Giant statues are cool, colossus




Pilum (spear): The Roman heavy spear was a weapon favored by legionaries and weighed approximately five pounds/2.25 kilograms.[26] The innovated javelin was designed to be used only once and was destroyed upon initial use. This ability prevented the enemy from reusing spears. All soldiers carried two versions of this weapon: a primary spear and a backup. A solid block of wood in the middle of the weapon provided legionaries protection for their hands while carrying the device. According to Polybius, historians have records of "how the Romans threw their spears and then charged with swords".[27] This tactic seemed to be common practice among Roman infantry.
Armour
Roman scale armour

While heavy, intricate armour was not uncommon (cataphracts), the Romans perfected a relatively light, full torso armour made of segmented plates (lorica segmentata). This segmented armour provided good protection for vital areas, but did not cover as much of the body as lorica hamata or chainmail. The lorica segmentata provided better protection, but the plate bands were expensive and difficult to produce and difficult to repair in the field. Generally, chainmail was cheaper, easier to produce, and simpler to maintain, was one-size-fits-all and was more comfortable to wear; thus, it remained the primary form of armour even when lorica segmentata was in use. 

On monuments, Auxilia are generally shown wearing mail, not cuirasses, and carrying oval shields. Roman depictions of legionaries, such as those found on Trajan's column often depict them wearing the lorica segmentata.[9] On this basis, it has been supposed that lorica segmentata was exclusively used by legionaries and praetorians.


https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Category:Ancient_Roman_legionary_equipment
https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Ancient_Roman_military_clothing
https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Category:Roman-era_clothing


Examples of items of Roman military personal armour included:

    Galea or soldier's helmet. Variant forms included the Coolus helmet, Montefortino helmet, and Imperial helmet.
    Greaves, to protect the legs.
    Lorica (armour), including:
        Lorica hamata (mail armour)
        Lorica manica (arm guards)
        Lorica plumata (a form of scale armour resembling feathers)
        Lorica segmentata (segmented armour)
        Lorica squamata (scale armour)
        Lorica musculata (muscle armour)
    Pteruges, perhaps mostly for senior ranks, formed a defensive skirt of leather or multi-layered fabric (linen) strips or lappets worn dependant from the waists of cuirasses

Other garments and equipment included:

    A tunic
    The baldric, a belt worn over one shoulder that is typically used to carry a weapon (usually a sword) or other implement such as a bugle or drum
    The balteus, the standard belt worn by the Roman legionary. It was probably used to tuck clothing into or to hold weapons.
    Braccae (trousers), popular among Roman legionaries stationed in cooler climates to the north of southern Italy
    Caligae, heavy-soled military shoes or sandals which were worn by Roman legionary soldiers and auxiliaries throughout the history of the Roman Republic and Empire.
    The focale, a scarf worn by the Roman legionary to protect the neck from chafing caused by constant contact with the soldier's armor
    The loculus, a satchel, carried by legionaries as a part of their sarcina (marching pack)
    The paludamentum, a cloak or cape fastened at one shoulder, worn by military commanders and (less often) by their troops. Ordinary soldiers wore a sagum instead of a paludamentum.